README.md, before:

# Towtruck

Towtruck is an application to aid maintenence of dxw's repos. 
It aims to make it easier to keep on top of which repos need updates applying.

Please review the [High Level Design document](/doc/high-level-design.md) if this is your first time in the project

## Prerequisites

You must have [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) installed. It is available on brew.
With `nvm` installed you should be able to run `script/setup` followed by `script/server` to run the application.


## Configuration

Towtruck is set up as a [GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps).


### GitHub App settings


#### Using a test Github App

The first step is to register a new app as described [here](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app):
- For **9**, no callback URL is currently required, so this step can be skipped.
- For **11**, no user authentication is currently required, so this step can be skipped.
- Skip **12** as Towtruck does not use device flow authentication.
- For **13** and **14**, there is no additional in-app setup performed by Towtruck, so these steps can be skipped.
- Skip **15** as Towtruck does receive GitHub webhooks and should be configured to listen for them.
- For **16**, the webhook URL should be configured to `https://<base Towtruck URL>/api/github/webhooks`.
  Alternatively, for development, a [Smee.io](https://smee.io/) channel can be used.
- For **17**, a strong, randomly-generated secret should be used.
- For **18**, SSL verification should be used.
- For **19**, see the **Permissions** section below for a list of required permissions.
- For **20**, see the **Webhooks** section below for a list of required webhooks to listen to.
- For **21**, **Any account** should be used in production when Towtruck is used to monitor multiple organisations.
  Otherwise, **Only this account** should be used.

Once the app is registered, it should be installed to an account to allow Towtruck to track it.
GitHub have instructions to do this [here](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/using-github-apps/installing-your-own-github-app).


##### Permissions

Towtruck is still in early development so the exact set of needed permissions has not been finalised.


##### Webhooks

Towtruck is still in early development so the exact set of needed webhooks has not been finalised.


#### Using the dxw Github App

This will use the live data from dxw's repos. Any testing to configuration should be performed using a personal test app first
The environment variables are available here: https://github.com/organizations/dxw/settings/apps/dxw-towtruck. You may need to ask permission from an owner of the dxw organisation.


### Environment variables

In order for Towtruck to communicate with the GitHub API, it needs several pieces of information, configured through environment variables:
- `APP_ID`: The unique numeric ID assigned to the GitHub App. This can be found in the dxw-towtruck app settings.
- `PRIVATE_KEY`: The private key used to sign access token requests.
  Towtruck expects this to be a `.pem` file generated by GitHub in the app settings and encoded using Base64.
  This can be generated from the `.pem` file by running `script/encode-key <path-to-pem-file>` in the terminal and copying the output.
- `CLIENT_ID`: A unique alphanumeric ID assigned to the GitHub App. This can be found in the dxw-towtruck app settings
- `CLIENT_SECRET`: A token used to authenticate API requests. These are generated by GitHub in the dxw-towtruck app settings.
- `WEBHOOK_SECRET`: A user-defined secret used to authenticate GitHub to Towtruck for receiving webhooks. This must be exactly the same as it is entered in the app settings on GitHub.


### Seeding

Once all the other setup steps have been completed run `script/seed` or `script/bootstrap --seed` to seed the data. 
This will call the Github API which is rate limit so take care not to to run the script too often.

Commit message:

Support nodenv
It's a bit more common for us to use nodenv at dxw than nvm, and it can
be a pain having both nvm and nodenv managing Node installations on the
same system

This therefore adds support for using nodenv locally without dropping
nvm support. We check whether nvm or nodenv are installed, and use the
appropriate one to install Node. If neither are installed, we error and
exit the script

README.md, after:

# Towtruck

Towtruck is an application to aid maintenence of dxw's repos. 
It aims to make it easier to keep on top of which repos need updates applying.

Please review the [High Level Design document](/doc/high-level-design.md) if this is your first time in the project

## Prerequisites

You must have [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [nodenv](https://github.com/nodenv/nodenv) installed. Both are available via Homebrew.
With either installed you should be able to run `script/setup` followed by `script/server` to run the application.


## Configuration

Towtruck is set up as a [GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps).


### GitHub App settings


#### Using a test Github App

The first step is to register a new app as described [here](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app):
- For **9**, no callback URL is currently required, so this step can be skipped.
- For **11**, no user authentication is currently required, so this step can be skipped.
- Skip **12** as Towtruck does not use device flow authentication.
- For **13** and **14**, there is no additional in-app setup performed by Towtruck, so these steps can be skipped.
- Skip **15** as Towtruck does receive GitHub webhooks and should be configured to listen for them.
- For **16**, the webhook URL should be configured to `https://<base Towtruck URL>/api/github/webhooks`.
  Alternatively, for development, a [Smee.io](https://smee.io/) channel can be used.
- For **17**, a strong, randomly-generated secret should be used.
- For **18**, SSL verification should be used.
- For **19**, see the **Permissions** section below for a list of required permissions.
- For **20**, see the **Webhooks** section below for a list of required webhooks to listen to.
- For **21**, **Any account** should be used in production when Towtruck is used to monitor multiple organisations.
  Otherwise, **Only this account** should be used.

Once the app is registered, it should be installed to an account to allow Towtruck to track it.
GitHub have instructions to do this [here](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/using-github-apps/installing-your-own-github-app).


##### Permissions

Towtruck is still in early development so the exact set of needed permissions has not been finalised.


##### Webhooks

Towtruck is still in early development so the exact set of needed webhooks has not been finalised.


#### Using the dxw Github App

This will use the live data from dxw's repos. Any testing to configuration should be performed using a personal test app first
The environment variables are available here: https://github.com/organizations/dxw/settings/apps/dxw-towtruck. You may need to ask permission from an owner of the dxw organisation.


### Environment variables

In order for Towtruck to communicate with the GitHub API, it needs several pieces of information, configured through environment variables:
- `APP_ID`: The unique numeric ID assigned to the GitHub App. This can be found in the dxw-towtruck app settings.
- `PRIVATE_KEY`: The private key used to sign access token requests.
  Towtruck expects this to be a `.pem` file generated by GitHub in the app settings and encoded using Base64.
  This can be generated from the `.pem` file by running `script/encode-key <path-to-pem-file>` in the terminal and copying the output.
- `CLIENT_ID`: A unique alphanumeric ID assigned to the GitHub App. This can be found in the dxw-towtruck app settings
- `CLIENT_SECRET`: A token used to authenticate API requests. These are generated by GitHub in the dxw-towtruck app settings.
- `WEBHOOK_SECRET`: A user-defined secret used to authenticate GitHub to Towtruck for receiving webhooks. This must be exactly the same as it is entered in the app settings on GitHub.


### Seeding

Once all the other setup steps have been completed run `script/seed` or `script/bootstrap --seed` to seed the data. 
This will call the Github API which is rate limit so take care not to to run the script too often.
