# Towtruck

Towtruck is an application to aid maintenence of dxw's repos. 
It aims to make it easier to keep on top of which repos need updates applying.

Please review the [High Level Design document](/doc/high-level-design.md) if this is your first time in the project

## Prerequisites

You must have [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) installed. It is available on brew.
With `nvm` installed you should be able to run `script/setup` followed by `script/server` to run the application.


## Configuration

Towtruck is set up as a [GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps).


### GitHub App settings


#### Using a test Github App

The first step is to register a new app as described [here](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app):
- For **9**, no callback URL is currently required, so this step can be skipped.
- For **11**, no user authentication is currently required, so this step can be skipped.
- Skip **12** as Towtruck does not use device flow authentication.
- For **13** and **14**, there is no additional in-app setup performed by Towtruck, so these steps can be skipped.
- Skip **15** as Towtruck does receive GitHub webhooks and should be configured to listen for them.
- For **16**, the webhook URL should be configured to `https://<base Towtruck URL>/api/github/webhooks`.
  Alternatively, for development, a [Smee.io](https://smee.io/) channel can be used.
- For **17**, a strong, randomly-generated secret should be used.
- For **18**, SSL verification should be used.
- For **19**, see the **Permissions** section below for a list of required permissions.
- For **20**, see the **Webhooks** section below for a list of required webhooks to listen to.
- For **21**, **Any account** should be used in production when Towtruck is used to monitor multiple organisations.
  Otherwise, **Only this account** should be used.

Once the app is registered, it should be installed to an account to allow Towtruck to track it.
GitHub have instructions to do this [here](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/using-github-apps/installing-your-own-github-app).


##### Permissions

Towtruck is still in early development so the exact set of needed permissions has not been finalised.


##### Webhooks

Towtruck is still in early development so the exact set of needed webhooks has not been finalised.


#### Using the dxw Github App

This will use the live data from dxw's repos. Any testing to configuration should be performed using a personal test app first
The environment variables are available here: https://github.com/settings/apps/towtruck-testing-223. You may need to ask permission from an owner of the dxw organisation.


### Environment variables

In order for Towtruck to communicate with the GitHub API, it needs several pieces of information, configured through environment variables:
- `APP_ID`: The unique numeric ID assigned to the GitHub App.
- `PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`: The private key used to sign access token requests. Towtruck expects this to be an absolute path to a `.pem` file generated by GitHub in the app settings.
- `CLIENT_ID`: A unique alphanumeric ID assigned to the GitHub App.
- `CLIENT_SECRET`: A token used to authenticate API requests. These are generated by GitHub in the app settings.
- `WEBHOOK_SECRET`: A user-defined secret used to authenticate GitHub to Towtruck for receiving webhooks. This must be exactly the same as it is entered in the app settings on GitHub.
